OID4VP profile for the W3C Digital Credentials API (#155)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

            <organization>Google</organization>
          </author>
        </front>
</reference>

# OID4VP profile for the W3C Digital Credentials API

This section defines a profile of OID4VP for use with the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api].

The W3C Digital Credentials API defines a Browser API, which allows web sites acting as Verifiers to request the presentation of Verifiable Credentials. The API itself does not define a credential exchange protocol but can be used with different such protocols. The Browser in concert with other layers of the platform/operating system and based on the decision of the user will select the Wallet the request is sent to and provide this Wallet with the request data along with the web origin of the Verifier. 

The design of this OIDVP profile utilizes the mechanisms of the W3C Digital Credentials API while also allowing to leverage advanced security features of OID4VP, if needed. 

This is a non-normative example of a OID4VP request through the W3C Digital Credentials API, 

```JavaScipt
const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
  digital: {
    providers: [{
      protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",

>       request:  JSON.stringify({
>         "client_id": "client.example.org",
>         "client_id_scheme": "web-origin",
>         "response_type": "vp_token",
>         "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
>         "client_metadata": {...},
>         "presentation_definition": {...}
>       })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      request:  {
        "client_id": "client.example.org",
        "client_id_scheme": "web-origin",
        "response_type": "vp_token",
        "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
        "client_metadata": {...},
        "presentation_definition": {...}
      }
```

same as @samuelgoto comment at https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/155/files#r1567773088

Author: yep

     }]
  }
});
```

and here is an non-normative example of how a response is received:

```JavaScipt
const { data } = response;

> const response = new URLSearchParams(data);

Author: modified it

```

> There are a couple of benefits for OID4VP implementers (both Verifiers as well as Wallets) to adopt OID4VP with the Digital Credentials API. To start with, the API is a privacy-preserving alternative to the invocation of Wallets through URLs, especially custom schemes. The browser will ensure the invocation of a Wallet is only performed if confirmed by the user based on contextual information of the request and the sender. It also allows to select Wallets based on the credential types being requested and supported, respectively. As request and responses are sent and received through the API, the user will always return to the browser tab where she had started, which results in an improved user experience. And the security of OID4VP implenentations can also be enhanced signficantly. Cross-device requests benefit from the use of proximity checks through a combined use of BLE and a QR Code (similar to Passkeys). Furthermore, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's URL as authenticated by the browser to the request as an additional signal, which can be used for phishing detection.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a couple of benefits for OID4VP implementers (both Verifiers as well as Wallets) to adopt OID4VP with the Digital Credentials API. To start with, the API is a privacy-preserving alternative to the invocation of Wallets through URLs, especially custom schemes. The browser will ensure the invocation of a Wallet is only performed if confirmed by the user based on contextual information of the request and the sender. It also allows to select Wallets based on the credential types being requested and supported, respectively. As request and responses are sent and received through the API, the user will always return to the browser tab where she had started, which results in an improved user experience. And the security of OID4VP implementations can also be enhanced significantly. Cross-device requests benefit from the use of proximity checks through a combined use of BLE and a QR Code (similar to Passkeys). Furthermore, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's URL as authenticated by the browser to the request as an additional signal, which can be used for phishing detection.  
```

## Protocol

The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `urn:openid.net:oid4vp' for this profile.

## Request

> The `request` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST contain a valid OID4VP Authorization Request, where every Authorization Request parameters is represented as top-level JSON claim as shown in the following non-normative example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `request` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST contain a valid OID4VP Authorization Request, where every Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JSON member as shown in the following non-normative example:
```
little grammar fixes and these are not claims

```json
{
  "client_id": "client.example.org",
  ...
  "response_type": "vp_token",
  "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
  "presentation_definition": {...}
}
```

> Any Authorization Requests as defined in OID4VP can be used except `redirect_uri`. If present, `redirect_uri` MUST be ignored. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any Authorization Request parameter as defined in OID4VP can be used except `redirect_uri`. If present, `redirect_uri` MUST be ignored. 
```

Author: rewrote paragraph

### Client ID Scheme web-origin

This profile defines the new Client ID Scheme `web-origin`. If this scheme is used, the Client Identifier is the origin of the Verifier web site as asserted by the browser towards the Wallet. 

## Response

Every OID4VP request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. In all cases, except if the response mode `direct_post` is used, the response MUST be follow the rules specified for OID4VP Authorization Responses. If the response model `direct_post` is used, the Wallet will return the URL the Direct Post Endpoint of the Verifier has returned. 

The following is an example of an OID4VP Authorization Response through the API: 

```json
{

>   "presentation_submission": "...",

Reviewer 2: Note that, if you respond with a JSON payload, then the new SearchURLParams() decoding isn't what you want, but rather JSON.parse().

Reviewer: As I understand OID4VP and because it is "a mechanism on top of OAuth 2.0" the response is something resulting in an HTTP request to the `redirect_uri`. Use in the browser API is different, obviously, and a JSON payload likely makes sense. But I don't think that's congruent with "response MUST be follow the rules specified for OID4VP Authorization Responses". I believe a lot more is needed in this section to reconcile how responses/response_mode should be conveyed in this context and how it's different than defined in typical OID4VP/OAuth.  Maybe new response modes or describing a mapping of how protocol parameters are transmitted. Sorry, this is difficult to articulate but the defined authorization response mechanisms don't just work as-is in a browser API context and Sam's comment here kinda highlights that or is a symptom of it.

Author: clarified that the response is a JSON object and the response type specific response parameters are encoded as JSON claims of that object

Reviewer: should something also be said about response mode? JARM's `jwt` would/could indicate signed and/or encrypted that would look like: `{"response":"eyJraWQiOiJsY...hLWfug6dA"}`.  While the query, fragment, and form_post vairients (JARM and plain) are kinda no ops or maybe disallowed. Direct post doesn't make sense (does it?) so maybe disallowed. Or is/should this be new response mode(s)? like `api` and `api.jwt` or something like that. It almost just makes sense but I think something needs to be said or defined in this area for interoperability.

Reviewer 3: WG discussion.
two questions that are related but should probably be dealt separately:
1. when response is encrypted, whether it is JARM extension in OpenID4VP (that allows only encrypting the response) or not? agreed to make changes to the PR with this as a starting point. 
2. what is the response_mode that should be used with the browser API? do not include response_mode at all (that would make it very implicit whether encryption is required or not)? agreed to make changes to the PR with new response_mode parameters `w3c_dc_api` and `w3c_dc_api.jwt`. an option is to say that if it is omitted, the deafult is `api.

Reviewer 3: these changes have been applied to the draft

## Example Flows

As OID4VP is pretty flexible, this section shall shed some light on what flows the authors deem especially useful.  

### Default Flow

In the Default flow, the Verifier sends all the OID4VP request data in the `request` parameter and reveices the result in the `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifers's Client Identifier.  

### Request URI Flow

In this flow, the Verifier sends a `request` with enough data to select the Wallet but the full OID4VP Authorization Request is fetched by the Wallet from an endpoint hosted by the Verifier. This allows the Verifier to sign and optionally encrypt the request data. 

The Verifier should use the `request_uri` parameter in conjunction with the `request_uri_method` parameter with a value of `post`. This will cause the Wallet to send a HTTPS POST request to the endpoint determined by `request_uri`. The request should also contain the `client_metadata` parameter with the Verifier's capabilities in order to allow the Wallet to only offer the capabilities common between both parties to the Verifier. 

This is a example of such a request:

```JavaScript

> const credential = await navigator.identity.get({

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming you need to add some sort of feature detection here before calling this, right? That is, don't you need to check somewhere if the underlying browser supports the digital credential API?

FWIW, you can do that easily with this check:

if ('DigitalCredential' in window) {
  // use the digital credential API
} else {
  // fallback to other invocation mechanisms
}

Author: thanks, incorporated it.

  digital: {
    providers: [{
      protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",

>       request: JSON.stringify({

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      request: {
```

This isn't necessary anymore now that we merged this:

https://github.com/WICG/digital-identities/pull/97

Author: done in parallel ;-)

        "client_id":"https//client.example.org",
        "client_id_scheme":"entity_id",
        "presentation_definition":"...",
        "request_uri":"https://client.example.org/request",

>         "request_uri_method":"post"})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "request_uri_method":"post"}
```
corresponding to the Suggested change above https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/155/files#r1567773088

Author: reworked the profile to use signed requests

        </front>
</reference>

<reference anchor="w3c.digital_credentials_api" target="https://wicg.github.io/digital-identities/">
        <front>
          <title>Digital Credentials API</title>
		  <author fullname="Marcos Caceres">
            <organization>Apple Inc.</organization>
          </author>
          <author fullname="Sam Goto">
            <organization>Google</organization>
          </author>
        </front>
</reference>

# OID4VP profile for the W3C Digital Credentials API

This section defines a profile of OID4VP for use with the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api].

> The W3C Digital Credentials API defines a Browser API, which allows web sites acting as Verifiers to request the presentation of Verifiable Credentials. The API itself does not define a credential exchange protocol but can be used with different such protocols. The Browser in concert with other layers of the platform/operating system and based on the decision of the user will select the Wallet the request is sent to and provide this Wallet with the request data along with the web origin of the Verifier. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The W3C Digital Credentials API defines a Browser API which allows web sites acting as Verifiers to request the presentation of Verifiable Credentials. The API itself does not define a credential exchange protocol but can be used with different such protocols. The Browser in concert with other layers of the platform/operating system and based on the decision of the user will select the Wallet the request is sent to and provide this Wallet with the request data along with the web origin of the Verifier. 
```
Or use `that` in the first sentence.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The W3C Digital Credentials API defines a Web Platform API which allows web sites acting as Verifiers
to request the presentation of verifiable credentials. The API itself does not define a credential exchange protocol
but can be used with multiple protocols. The user agent working together with other layers of the platform/operating system and based on the permission of the End-User will send to the Wallet of the End-User's choice the request data along with the web origin of the Verifier.
```

`different such protocols` sounds awkward to me.
also why is `Browser` capitalized?

The design of this OIDVP profile utilizes the mechanisms of the W3C Digital Credentials API while also allowing to leverage advanced security features of OID4VP, if needed. It also defines the OID4VP request and response parameters that MAY be used with the W3C Digital Credentials API.

> This is a non-normative example of a request, 

Reviewer 4: I suggest to not have the sentence run over multiple examples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of an unsigned request when advanced security features of OID4VP are not used:
```

```js
if ('DigitalCredential' in window) {
  const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
    digital: {
      providers: [{
        protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
        request:  {
          response_type: "vp_token",
          nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
          client_metadata: {...},
          presentation_definition: {...}
        }
      }]
    }
  });
} else {
// fallback to other invocation mechanisms
}
```

> and this is a non-normative example of the corresponding response:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of a response corresponding to a previous request:
```

> and this is a non-normative example of how the corresponding response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and this is a non-normative example of the corresponding response:
```

```JavaScipt
const { data } = response;

> // data is a byte array that contains the JSON or JWE which needs to be parsed

Reviewer: below the "Response" section defines the Authorization Response as a JSON object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded at the top-level. So this would *always* be JSON. Even a signed and/or encrypted response (via JARM) would be JSON with a "response" member containing the JWT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```

> There are a couple of benefits for OID4VP implementers (both Verifiers as well as Wallets) to adopt OID4VP with the Digital Credentials API. To start with, the API is a privacy-preserving alternative to the invocation of Wallets through URLs, especially custom schemes. The browser will ensure the invocation of a Wallet is only performed if confirmed by the user based on contextual information of the request and the sender. It also allows to select Wallets based on the credential types being requested and supported, respectively. As request and responses are sent and received through the API, the user will always return to the browser tab where she had started, which results in an improved user experience. And the security of OID4VP implenentations can also be enhanced signficantly. Cross-device requests benefit from the use of proximity checks through a combined use of BLE and a QR Code (similar to Passkeys). Furthermore, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's URL as authenticated by the browser to the request as an additional signal, which can be used for phishing detection.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There are several benefits for OID4VP implementers (both Verifiers as well as Wallets) to adopt OID4VP with the Digital Credentials API. To start with, the API is a privacy-preserving alternative to the invocation of Wallets through URLs, especially custom schemes. The browser will ensure the invocation of a Wallet is only performed if confirmed by the user based on contextual information of the request and the sender. The use of the API also allows to select Wallets based on the credential types being requested and supported, respectively. As requests and responses are sent and received through the API, the user will always return to the browser tab where they had started, which results in an improved user experience. Finally, the security of OID4VP implementations can also be enhanced significantly. Cross-device requests benefit from the use of proximity checks through a combined use of BLE and a QR Code (similar to Passkeys). Furthermore, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's URL as authenticated by the browser to the request as an additional signal, which can be used for phishing detection.  
```

## Protocol

> The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `urn:openid.net:oid4vp' for this profile.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `urn:openid.net:oid4vp` for this profile.
```

## Request

The `request` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST contain a valid OID4VP Authorization Request, where every Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JSON member as shown in the following non-normative example:

```json
{
  "client_id": "client.example.org",
  ...
  "response_type": "vp_token",
  "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
  "presentation_definition": {...}
}
```

The following Authorization Request parameters are supported with this profile: 

* `client_id`
* `client_id_scheme`
* `response_type`
* `nonce`

> * `presentation_definition`

Reviewer 3: I turned it into a separate issue #182. let's merge this big PR and discuss PD_URI in that issue.

* `client_metadata`
* `request`

> The `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests. The wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Browser. 

Reviewer 3: add that how the wallet receives the origin from the platform/browser is up to the platform and is out of scope of this profile

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests. The Wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Browser. How the Wallet receives the origin from is up to the user agent and app platform and is out of scope of this profile.
```

This profile introduces a new parameter `expected_origins`.

> * `expected_origins`: An array of strings, each of the strings representing an origin of the Verifier making the request. This parameter MUST only be used with signed requests. It relates the logical Client Identifier to the physical endpoints that are legit origins for requests on behalf of this Client Identifier and is used to detect request replay.

Reviewer 4: What is the use case for more than one origin here?

Reviewer 3: i think when discussed at IIW, the use-case was, when the entity owns/controls multiple domains, the verifier backend can generate the request that can be used by multiple domains (ex. amazon's backend generating a signed request that can be used by any amazon domain in the EU - amazon.de, amazon.fr, etc.), but now I am not really sure. i think @tplooker was arguing in favor of an array and might have more context..?

Reviewer 3: we confirmed during the WG call that above explanation is correct. @danielfett does this make sense? can we resolve the issue?

> * `expected_origins`: An array of strings, each of the strings representing an origin of the Verifier making the request. This parameter MUST only be used with signed requests. It relates the logical Client Identifier to the physical endpoints that are legit origins for requests on behalf of this Client Identifier and is used to detect request replay.

Reviewer 4: This should be listed in the allowed parameters above.

Reviewer 3: clarified in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/155/commits/ec2bb01ac10e1d56dc96939922fd9af1257c3088

## Response

> Every OID4VP Authorization Request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. The Authorization Response is a JSON object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded as top-level claims in this JSON object. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every OID4VP Authorization Request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. The Authorization Response is a JSON object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded as top-level members in this JSON object. 
```

claims are not a thing in plain JSON

The following is an example of an OID4VP Authorization Response through the API: 

```json
{
  "presentation_submission": "...",
  "vp_token": "..."
}
```

Note: All mechanisms for cryptographically protecting the OID4VP response MAY be utilized with the W3C Digital Credentials API, too. 

## Example Flows

As OID4VP is pretty flexible, this section shall shed some light on what flows the authors deem especially useful.  

### Unsigned Request

> The Verifier MAY send all the OID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and reveices the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifers's Client Identifier.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Verifier MAY send all the OID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.  
```

Reviewer 4: Is there an example missing here?

### Signed Request

The Verifier MAY send a signed request.

> The signed request object MAY contain all the parameters listed above except `request`. The signed request object MUST contain an `expected_origins` parameter. 

Reviewer 4: This normative statement should not be in an example section.

Reviewer 3: agreed. moved sections around and removed "example flow" section

```JavaScript
const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
  digital: {
    providers: [{
      protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
      request: {
       "client_id": "client.example.org",
       "client_id_scheme": "entity_id",
       "request": "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ..."
     }
    }]
  }
});
```

This is an example signed request payload:

```JSON
{
    "client_id": "client.example.org",
    "client_id_scheme": "entity_id",
    "expected_origins": [
        "https://origin1.example.com",
        "https://origin2.example.com"
    ],
    "response_type": "vp_token",
    "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
    "client_metadata": {
        "vp_formats": {
            "vc+sd-jwt": {
                "sd-jwt_alg_values": [
                    "PS256"
                ],
                "kb-jwt_alg_values": [
                    "PS256"
                ]
            }
        },
        "jwks": {
            "keys": [
                {
                    "kty": "EC",
                    "crv": "P-256",
                    "x": "MKBCTNIcKUSDii11ySs3526iDZ8AiTo7Tu6KPAqv7D4",
                    "y": "4Etl6SRW2YiLUrN5vfvVHuhp7x8PxltmWWlbbM4IFyM",

>                     "use": "enc",

Reviewer: doesn't the presence of an encryption key here suggest that a jarm response mode should be used?

Reviewer 3: that's a good point - will add a text clarifying that the response is encrypted using JARM. @timcappalli @samuelgoto is there clarity if if encrypting the response sent via the browser API is mandatory?

Reviewer 3: I added text on JARM, please review if what has been added is sufficient.

Reviewer 3: look like it's ok

Secondly, the user will always be returned to the initial context, typically a browser tab, when the request has been fulfilled (or aborted), which results in an improved user experience.

Thirdly, cross-device requests benefit from the use of secure transports with proximity checks, which are handled by the OS platform using FIDO CTAP 2.2 with hybrid transports.

And lastly, as part of the request, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's origin as authenticated by the user agent, which is important for phishing resistance.  

## Protocol

The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `urn:openid.net:oid4vp` for this profile.

## Request

The `request` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST contain a valid OID4VP Authorization Request, where every Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JSON member as shown in the following non-normative example:

```json
{
  "client_id": "client.example.org",
  ...
  "response_type": "vp_token",
  "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
  "presentation_definition": {...}
}
```

> The following Authorization Request parameters are supported with this profile: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Out of the Authorization Request parameters defined in [@!RFC6749] and (#vp_token_request), the following are supported with this profile: 
```

* `client_id`
* `client_id_scheme`
* `response_type`
* `nonce`
* `presentation_definition`
* `client_metadata`
* `request`

The `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests. The Wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Browser. How the Wallet receives the origin from is up to the user agent and app platform and is out of scope of this profile.

> This profile introduces a new parameter `expected_origins`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the above-mentioned parameters, this profile introduces a following new parameter:
```

        </front>
</reference>

<reference anchor="w3c.digital_credentials_api" target="https://wicg.github.io/digital-credentials/">
        <front>
          <title>Digital Credentials API</title>
		  <author fullname="Marcos Caceres">
            <organization>Apple Inc.</organization>
          </author>
          <author fullname="Sam Goto">
            <organization>Google</organization>
          </author>
        </front>
</reference>

# OpenID4VP profile for the W3C Digital Credentials API

This section defines a profile of OpenID4VP for use with the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api].

The W3C Digital Credentials API defines a Web Platform API which allows web sites acting as Verifiers

> to request the presentation of Verifiable Credentials. The API itself does not define a credential exchange protocol

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
to request the presentation of Verifiable Credentials. The API itself does not define a Credential exchange protocol
```

> but can be used with multiple protocols. The user agent working together with other layers of the platform/operating system and based on the permission of the End-User will send to the Wallet of the End-User's choice the request data along with the web origin of the Verifier.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
but can be used with multiple protocols. The user-agent working together with other layers of the platform/operating system and based on the permission of the End-User will send to the Wallet of the End-User's choice the request data along with the web origin of the Verifier.
```

> but can be used with multiple protocols. The user agent working together with other layers of the platform/operating system and based on the permission of the End-User will send to the Wallet of the End-User's choice the request data along with the web origin of the Verifier.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
but can be used with multiple protocols. The Web Platform, working in conjunction with other layers, such as the app platform/operating system, and based on the permission of the End-User, will send the request data along with the web origin of the Verifier to the End-User's chosen Wallet.
```

> The design of this OpenID4VP profile utilizes the mechanisms of the W3C Digital Credentials API while also allowing to leverage advanced security features of OpenID4VP, if needed. It also defines the OpenID4VP request parameter that MAY be used with the W3C Digital Credentials API.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This OpenID4VP profile utilizes the mechanisms of the W3C Digital Credentials API while also allowing to leverage advanced security features of OpenID4VP, if needed. It also defines the OpenID4VP request parameters that MAY be used with the W3C Digital Credentials API.
```

> The design of this OpenID4VP profile utilizes the mechanisms of the W3C Digital Credentials API while also allowing to leverage advanced security features of OpenID4VP, if needed. It also defines the OpenID4VP request parameter that MAY be used with the W3C Digital Credentials API.

Reviewer 3: applied Oliver's changes

The Digital Credentials API offers several advantages for implementers of both Verifiers and Wallets. 

> Firstly, the API serves as a privacy-preserving alternative to invoking Wallets via URLs, particularly custom schemes. The user agent and app platform will only invoke a Wallet if the user confirms the request based on contextual information about the credential request and the requestor (verifier). 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Firstly, the API serves as a privacy-preserving alternative to invoking Wallets via Deep Links, particularly custom URI schemes. The user agent and app platform will only invoke a Wallet if the user confirms the request based on contextual information about the credential request and the requestor (verifier). 
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Firstly, the API serves as a privacy-preserving alternative to invoking Wallets via URLs, particularly custom URL schemes. The underlying app platform will only invoke a Wallet if the user confirms the request based on contextual information about the credential request and the requestor (Verifier). 
```
Combining Oliver and Tim's suggestions.

> Firstly, the API serves as a privacy-preserving alternative to invoking Wallets via URLs, particularly custom schemes. The user agent and app platform will only invoke a Wallet if the user confirms the request based on contextual information about the credential request and the requestor (verifier). 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Firstly, the API serves as a privacy-preserving alternative to invoking Wallets via URLs, particularly custom schemes. The underlying app platform will only invoke a Wallet if the user confirms the request based on contextual information about the credential request and the requestor (Verifier). 
```

Reviewer 8: Discussed on today's WG call. We did feel that the browser has sufficient involvement (e.g. it may add friction to the requests based on risk) that it's probably preferable to keep 'user agent' in here.

> Secondly, the user will always be returned to the initial context, typically a browser tab, when the request has been fulfilled (or aborted), which results in an improved user experience.

Reviewer 7: This paragraph should cover cross/same-device: cross-device (QR Code), same-device (mobile browser/tab):
```suggestion
Secondly, the control flow will always be returned to the initial context, typically a browser tab, when the request has been fulfilled (or aborted), which results in an improved user experience.
```

Reviewer 3: what is the `control flow`?

Reviewer 8: I think 'control flow' is basically referring to "the application / browser tab that currently have focus / is in the foreground".

I agree that the suggested text is better than the current text, as the current text isn't great when considering cross-device flows.

Reviewer 3: I don't understand the current sentence. can you please make a suggestion that is better than the current text but does not use a term control flow?

Reviewer 8: How about 'the session with the user' instead?

```suggestion
Secondly, the session with the user will always continue in the initial context, typically a browser tab, when the request has been fulfilled (or aborted), which results in an improved user experience.```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Secondly, the session with the user will always continue in the initial context, typically a browser tab, when the request has been fulfilled (or aborted), which results in an improved user experience.
```

thank you, Joseph!

> Thirdly, cross-device requests benefit from the use of secure transports with proximity checks, which are handled by the OS platform using FIDO CTAP 2.2 with hybrid transports.

Reviewer 7: Isn't FIDO CTAP opaque from an OID4VP-perspective?
```suggestion
Thirdly, cross-device requests benefit from the use of secure transports with proximity checks, which are handled by the OS platform, e.g., using FIDO CTAP 2.2 with hybrid transports.
```

> And lastly, as part of the request, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's origin as authenticated by the user agent, which is important for phishing resistance.  

Reviewer 3: this document uses user `agent`, so I will stick to it https://wicg.github.io/digital-credentials/

## Protocol

> The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `urn:openid.net:oid4vp` for this profile.
> 

Reviewer 9: Can we just do: 

```suggestion
The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `oid4vp` for this profile.

```

"urns" are not really a thing on the Web (or that browsers know how to deal with).... otherwise we will need to treat them as URLs. It's better if they are just opaque strings.

Reviewer 9: Put differently, we should avoid establish a convention to use URLs (of which URNs subset) because then we will likely see fun things like "urn:foo?bar=whatever#something" start popping up in other places.

Reviewer: It's just a string value that's namespaced to avoid collision and uses a URN format to do so.

Reviewer 10: I see why its being proposed as a URN, but also agree with @marcoscaceres that if we feel the registrations of "protocols" are going to be sufficiently low the chance of a collision is low and thus we could go forward with more terse values like "oid4vp".

Reviewer 8: Discussed on today's WG call; as per Tobias's comment the number of values should be really quite small, so the chances of collisions is small, particularly if w3c is going to have some kind of official list / registry at some point. Mike suggested 'openid4vp' avoids potential confusion with OIDs. We achieved consensus for changing it to 'openid4vp'

Reviewer 9: Awesome! thank you 🙏

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `openid4vp` for this profile.

```

## Request {#browser_api_request}

> The `request` member of the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api] MUST contain a valid OpenID4VP Authorization Request, where every OpenID4VP Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JavaScript object member.

Reviewer 9: Be careful when we talk about "valid", for "valid" will need to be linked to a validity checker.... that's ok... but we need to establish clearly what a "valid" thing is, and in a future/backwards compatible way.

Reviewer 8: I think we can remove 'MUST' and 'valid' without losing anything (and in fact we gain something, as a 'valid' request via the browser API may not be a valid OpenID4VP request over the non-browser API, e.g. the unsigned browser API request below is not valid when passed via a custom scheme):

```suggestion
The `request` member of the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api] contains an OpenID4VP Authorization Request, where every OpenID4VP Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JavaScript object member.
```

Reviewer 9: Yeah, that makes sense @Sakurann. Making it just a "statement of fact" is a good suggestion. 

We will still need to deal with invalid requests somewhere, but we can get to that.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `request` member of the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api] contains a valid OpenID4VP Authorization Request, where every OpenID4VP Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JavaScript object member.
```

why not `contains a valid` request. as a specification, we have to tell the developers to put a valid request. (even if it might end up being invalid for various reasons)

Reviewer 8: Because:

1.  "valid request" is ambiguous in this context and causes potential confusion (a 'valid' request via the browser API may not be a valid OpenID4VP request over the non-browser API, e.g. the unsigned browser API request below is not valid when passed via a custom scheme)
2. it's not something specifications normally say (e.g. neither OIDC nor RFC6749 say it)

Reviewer 3: well, in this case, it is pretty clear that valid request applies to a openid4vp part only but sure, I am not going to die on this hill

The following is a non-normative example of how the W3C Digital Credentials API can be used with an unsigned OpenID4VP request when advanced security features of OpenID4VP are not used:

```js

> if ('DigitalCredential' in window) {
>   const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
>     digital: {
>       providers: [{
>         protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
>         request:  {
>           response_type: "vp_token",
>           nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
>           client_metadata: {...},
>           presentation_definition: {...}
>         }
>       }]
>     }
>   });
> } else {
> // fallback to other invocation mechanisms
> }

Reviewer 9: You can probably just do ... and handle all cases like: 

```suggestion
try {
  const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
    digital: {
      providers: [{
        protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
        request:  {
          response_type: "vp_token",
          nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
          client_metadata: {...},
          presentation_definition: {...}
        }
      }]
    }
  });
} catch (err) {
  // Handle errors and/or fallback to other invocation mechanisms
}
```

Reviewer 8: Agreed, discussed on today's WG call and people liked Marcos's suggestion.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
try {
	  const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
	    digital: {
	      providers: [{
	        protocol: "openid4vp",
	        request:  {
	          response_type: "vp_token",
	          nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
	          client_metadata: {...},
	          presentation_definition: {...}
	        }
	      }]
	    }
	  });
	} catch (err) {
	  // Handle errors and/or fallback to other invocation mechanisms
	}
```

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
try {
  const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
    digital: {
      providers: [
        {
          protocol: "openid4vp",
          request: {
            response_type: "vp_token",
            nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
            client_metadata: {...},
            presentation_definition: {...},
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  });
} catch (err) {
  // Handle errors and/or fallback to other invocation mechanisms
}
```

```

Out of the Authorization Request parameters defined in [@!RFC6749] and (#vp_token_request), the following are supported with this profile: 

* `client_id`
* `client_id_scheme`

> * `response_type`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `response_type`
* `response_mode`
```

* `nonce`
* `presentation_definition`
* `client_metadata`
* `request`

> * `response_mode`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests defined in (#unsigned_request). The Wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Browser. How the Wallet receives the origin from the Browser is up to the user agent and app platform and is out of scope of this profile.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests defined in (#unsigned_request). The Wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Web Platform and/or app platform. The transport of the request and origin from the web platform and/or app platform to the Wallet is platform-specific and is out of scope of this profile.
```

> The `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests defined in (#unsigned_request). The Wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Browser. How the Wallet receives the origin from the Browser is up to the user agent and app platform and is out of scope of this profile.

Reviewer 9: Yeah, so this kind of stuff we might need to put into a set of algorithms as part of the validity checker....

> The value of `response_mode` parameter MUST be `w3c_dc_api` when the response is neither signed nor encrypted and `w3c_dc_api.jwt` when the response is signed and/or encrypted as defined in (#jarm).

Reviewer 6: Since a URN is being used for the protocol parameter, can a namespaced URN be considered here as well?

Maybe `urn:w3c:digital-credentials`?

Reviewer 9: hehe, I just argued above we should drop URNs... let's just use strings, otherwise we need to involve the URL parser.

Reviewer 8: Discussed on today's WG call; response_mode as defined by OAuth2 isn't a place where namespaced URN are currently used, the WG felt sticking with the current values was okay. If there's any strong objections to that it's probably best to raise a new issue for it.

In addition to the above-mentioned parameters, this profile introduces a new parameter:

> * `expected_origins`: REQUIRED when signed requests defined in (#signed_request) are send over the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api]. An array of strings, each of the string representing an origin of the Verifier that is making the request. The Wallet can detect replay of the request by comparing values in this parameter to the origin asserted by the user agent.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* `expected_origins`: REQUIRED when signed requests defined in (#signed_request) are sent over the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api]. It contains an array of strings, each string representing an origin of the Verifier that is making the request. The Wallet can detect replay of the request by comparing values in this parameter to the origin asserted by the user agent.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `expected_origins`: REQUIRED when signed requests defined in (#signed_request) are used with the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api]. An array of strings, each string representing an origin of the Verifier that is making the request. The Wallet can detect replay of the request from a malicious Verifier by comparing values in this parameter to the origin asserted by the Web Platform.
```

combining suggestions of Oliver, DavidC and Tim.

> * `expected_origins`: REQUIRED when signed requests defined in (#signed_request) are send over the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api]. An array of strings, each of the string representing an origin of the Verifier that is making the request. The Wallet can detect replay of the request by comparing values in this parameter to the origin asserted by the user agent.

Reviewer: I believe "Web Platform" is what the cool kids call the browser these days. But I'm not sure it's a term that it'd be a term that's familiar to most.

> * `expected_origins`: REQUIRED when signed requests defined in (#signed_request) are send over the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api]. An array of strings, each of the string representing an origin of the Verifier that is making the request. The Wallet can detect replay of the request by comparing values in this parameter to the origin asserted by the user agent.

Reviewer 8: Discussed on today's WG call; the feeling was it's better to leave it as user agent for consistency with the rest of the spec (which doesn't mention Web Platform at all).

@timcappalli Is there any reason why user agent is a completely wrong term? If so we should probably open an issue and make sure we consistently use Web Platform where it's appropriate.

## Signed and Unsigned Requests

> Any OpenID4VP request compliant to this section of this specification can be sent over the W3C Digital Credentials API. Depending on the mechanism used to identify and authenticate the Verifier, the request can be signed or unsigned. This section defines signed and unsigned OpenID4VP requests over the W3C Digital Credentials API.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Any OpenID4VP request compliant to this section of this specification can be used with the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api]. Depending on the mechanism used to identify and authenticate the Verifier, the request can be signed or unsigned. This section defines signed and unsigned OpenID4VP requests for use with the W3C Digital Credentials API.
```

### Unsigned Request {#unsigned_request}

> The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.

Reviewer 8: Clarify this is the request member as per the w3c doc, and the response description is wrong but I think unnecessary as it's correctly described in the response section below:  (I must've missed this on first/second reading; sorry!)

```suggestion
The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request data as elements in the `request` member passed to the API. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.
```

Reviewer 3: @samuelgoto can you please help with the correct terms to use when describing how openid4vp parameters are passed over the browser API?

Reviewer 8: Discussed on today's WG call. Lee Campbell says the new text seems right. The only note was that although it is a javascript object it must be serialisable to JSON (due to the use of the hybrid flow), so we could mention that but if you follow the profile you would end up with something JSON serialisable so maybe we don't need to mention it.

Reviewer 6: This should reference the fromJSON methods that will be defined in an upcoming spec change (#125).

I can take a stab at this text once I finish that PR.

Reviewer 3: @jogu `the new text` being your suggestion?

Reviewer 8: > the new text being your suggestion?

Yes, correct.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request parameters as elements in the `request` member passed to the API. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier's origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.
```

> The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request parameters as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier's origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.
```

Reviewer: The API no longer seems to use `result` and the result/response seems likely to change again https://github.com/WICG/digital-credentials/issues/119#issuecomment-2183562235

Reviewer 8: I opened this issue so we can address this in a follow up PR: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/issues/201

> The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.

Reviewer 9: I'm not sure what "JSON elements" are... I don't think that's thing? (at least in [ECMA-404](https://ecma-international.org/publications-and-standards/standards/ecma-404/))

Reviewer 11: I guess "JSON values" would be correct here?

Reviewer 8: I think this would be correct and consistent with the language used elsewhere in VP and also that used in the Browser API spec itself (it's not required to be JSON so I don't think we should mention JSON at all):

```suggestion
The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request data as members in the `request` member and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.
```

Reviewer 9: The DC API requires them to be an object, but @jogu is correct that what's inside the request object is left up to the protocol.

Reviewer 3: combined with a suggestion made above.

> The signed Request Object MUST NOT contain `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` parameters.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
The unsigned Request Object MUST NOT contain `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` parameters.
```
This should be unsigned, right?

> The unsigned Request Object MUST NOT contain `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` parameters.

Reviewer 5: this is duplicated, already said this before.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

### Signed Request {#signed_request}

> The Verifier MAY send a signed request, for example, when identification and authentication of the Verifier is required.

Reviewer 5: I would go for a SHOULD.

Reviewer 8: Resolving as per discussion on today's WG call:

The browser folks are pretty keen to say that unsigned requests are generally fine, the may reason we have signed requests here is because of EU law having a requirement to identify the verifier using a certificate. So we should leave this as a 'MAY'.

> The signed Request Object MAY contain all the parameters listed in (#browser_api_request), except `request`. The signed Request Object MUST contain an `expected_origins` parameter. 

Reviewer 11: I think this statement can be misunderstood without the context we might have. To me this sounds like only `expected_origins` is mandatory and everything else is optional - which is not the reality for a signed request. 

Should we either explicitly add other mandatory parameters or something along the lines of "normal Request Object requirements apply" (and we for example need things like client_id and client_id_scheme to be able to deal with the signed request)?

Reviewer 3: we already say above 
> * `expected_origins`: REQUIRED when signed requests defined in (#signed_request) are used with the W3C Digital Credentials API

so we can probably remove expected_origins part.

```suggestion
The signed Request Object MAY contain all the parameters listed in (#browser_api_request), except `request`.
```

Below is a non-normative example of such a request:

```js
const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
  digital: {
    providers: [{
      protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
      request: {
        request: "eyJhbGciOiJF..."
     }
    }]
  }
});

> This is an example signed request payload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example of the payload of a signed request:
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is an example of the payload of a signed OpenID4VP request used with the W3C Digital Credentials API:
```

> <{{examples/digital_credentials_api/signed_request_payload.json}}

Reviewer 9: Does this need a closing `>` ? ... not familiar with this syntax 🙈

Reviewer 3: it doesn't - i think it's part of the markdown syntax that we use when converting markdown to html

The signed request allows the Wallet to authenticate the Verifier using a trust framework other than the Web PKI utilized by the browser. An example of such a trust framework is the Verifier (RP) management infrastructure set up in the context of the eIDAS regulation in the European Union, in which case, the Wallet can no longer rely only on the web origin of the Verifier. This web origin MAY still be used to further strengthen the security of the flow. The external trust framework could, for example, map the Client Identifier to registered web origins.

## Response

> Every OpenID4VP Authorization Request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. The Authorization Response is a JavaScript object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded as top-level members in this JavaScript object. 

Reviewer 3: can you please open an issue on this so that we can merge this PR but keep tracking this?

> Every OpenID4VP Authorization Request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. The Authorization Response is a JavaScript object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded as top-level members in this JavaScript object. 

Reviewer 8: We discussed on today's WG call and agreed to address this is a followup so I've opened issue #203.

> Every OpenID4VP Authorization Request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. The Authorization Response is a JavaScript object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded as top-level members in this JavaScript object. 

Reviewer 9: thanks for doing it. Happy to help with that after we land this.

> The following is a non-normative example of an OpenID4VP response that could be received from the W3C Digital Credentials API:
> 	
> ```js
> {
>   vp_token: "...",
>   presentation_submission: {...}
> }
> ```

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of an OpenID4VP response that could be received from the W3C Digital Credentials API:
	
```js
{
  vp_token: "...",
  presentation_submission: {...}
}
```

The following is a non-normative example of an OpenID4VP error response that could be received from the W3C Digital Credentials API:
	
```js
{
  error: "...",
  error_description: {...}
}
```

```

> 

Reviewer 7: It would make sense to add an error response example as well.

```suggestion
The following is a non-normative example of an OpenID4VP error response that could be received from the W3C Digital Credentials API:
	
```js
{
  error: "...",
  error_description: {...}
}
```

```

Reviewer 9: Errors should probably result in promise rejections, no?

Reviewer 3: @awoie please open a separate issue on error handling. i think this PR can be merged first and we can add an error later.

Reviewer 8: I opened a new issue to cover both Oliver's & Marcos's points here: 

https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/issues/204

> Note: All mechanisms for cryptographically protecting the OpenID4VP response MAY be utilized with the W3C Digital Credentials API, too.

Reviewer 9: I'm not sure what this means... "All mechanisms" seems scary. Can we point to a restricted set of mechanisms?

> Note: All mechanisms for cryptographically protecting the OpenID4VP response MAY be utilized with the W3C Digital Credentials API, too.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

we probably can remove this because we already have above
> The value of `response_mode` parameter MUST be `w3c_dc_api` when the response is neither signed nor encrypted and `w3c_dc_api.jwt` **when the response is signed and/or encrypted as defined in (#jarm)**.

and I think this sentence was meant to say what I put in bold above

> Note: All mechanisms for cryptographically protecting the OpenID4VP response MAY be utilized with the W3C Digital Credentials API, too.

Reviewer 8: Discussed on today's WG call; people are happy with Kristina's suggestion to remove the sentence.

# Examples with Credentials in Various Formats {#alternative_credential_formats}

> OpenID for Verifiable Presentations is Credential format agnostic, i.e., it is designed to allow applications to request and receive Verifiable Presentations and Verifiable Credentials in any Credential format. This section defines Credential Format Profiles for some of the known Credential formats. Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
OpenID for Verifiable Presentations is Credential Format agnostic, i.e., it is designed to allow applications to request and receive Verifiable Presentations and Verifiable Credentials in any Credential Format. This section defines Credential Format Profiles for some of the known Credential Formats. Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles.
```

> OpenID for Verifiable Presentations is Credential format agnostic, i.e., it is designed to allow applications to request and receive Verifiable Presentations and Verifiable Credentials in any Credential format. This section defines Credential Format Profiles for some of the known Credential formats. Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles.

Reviewer 9: I think this might be somewhat misleading, as although OID4VP may support any format, the wallets, browsers, OSs, etc. might not, and some could get blocked for security reasons (or they are just not supported).

Reviewer 3: umm once the wallets, browsers, OSs, etc. start blocking credential formats, we can add a warning, but right now openid4vp supports any credential format.

Reviewer 9: Right, I think we should maybe say that here. Something like:

> However, it is important to note that while OID4VP may support any format, compatibility with wallets, browsers, operating systems, etc., may vary. Some credential formats might not be supported or could be restricted by the wallets, browsers, operating systems for security, privacy, or compatibility reasons.

## Signed and Unsigned Requests

Any OpenID4VP request compliant to this section of this specification can be sent over the W3C Digital Credentials API. Depending on the mechanism used to identify and authenticate the Verifier, the request can be signed or unsigned. This section defines signed and unsigned OpenID4VP requests over the W3C Digital Credentials API.

### Unsigned Request {#unsigned_request}

The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.

The signed Request Object MUST NOT contain `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` parameters.

### Signed Request {#signed_request}

The Verifier MAY send a signed request, for example, when identification and authentication of the Verifier is required.

The signed Request Object MAY contain all the parameters listed in (#browser_api_request), except `request`. The signed Request Object MUST contain an `expected_origins` parameter. 

Below is a non-normative example of such a request:

> ```js
> const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
>   digital: {
>     providers: [{
>       protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
>       request: {
>         client_id: "https://client.example.org/",
>         client_id_scheme: "entity_id",
>         request: "eyJhbGciOiJF..."
>      }
>     }]
>   }
> });
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```js
const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
  digital: {
    providers: [{
      protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
      request: {
        request: "eyJhbGciOiJF..."
     }
    }]
  }
});
```
```

## Signed and Unsigned Requests

Any OpenID4VP request compliant to this specification can be sent over the W3C Digital Credentials API. Depending on the mechanism used to identify and authenticate the Verifier, the request can be signed or unsigned. This section defines signed and unsigned OpenID4VP requests over the W3C Digital Credentials API.

### Unsigned Request {#unsigned_request}

The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.

### Signed Request {#signed_request}

The Verifier MAY send a signed request, for example, when identification and authentication of the Verifier is required.

The signed Request Object MAY contain all the parameters listed in (#browser_api_request), except `request`. The signed Request Object MUST contain an `expected_origins` parameter. 

Below is a non-normative example of such a request:

> ```js
> const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
>   digital: {
>     providers: [{
>       protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
>       request: {
>         client_id: "client.example.org",
>         client_id_scheme: "entity_id",
>         request: "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ..."
>      }
>     }]
>   }
> });
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```js
const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
  digital: {
    providers: [{
      protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
      request: {
        request: "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ..."
     }
    }]
  }
});
```
```

        </front>
</reference>

<reference anchor="w3c.digital_credentials_api" target="https://wicg.github.io/digital-credentials/">
        <front>
          <title>Digital Credentials API</title>
		  <author fullname="Marcos Caceres">
            <organization>Apple Inc.</organization>
          </author>
          <author fullname="Sam Goto">
            <organization>Google</organization>
          </author>
        </front>
</reference>

> # OpenID4VP profile for the W3C Digital Credentials API

Reviewer 12: A credential format may need to specify the cryptographic details that are specific for how it is used in conjunction with the browser api, e.g. device/key binding, or how the nonce parameter is used. Therefore, we need to add a section to this PR that defines these normative details.

Reviewer 3: that applies to an entire spec and is not specific to browser API. we already have credential format profiles, so nothing special is needed. please read appendix A

Reviewer 12: I don’t think this issue is resolved. We need to specify these details somewhere. For example in the case where mdoc is used, it needs to be specified what the contents is of the SessionTranscript structure. This will be specific for using the browser api and will (likely) be different when using other OpenID4VP flows.
I don’t think it matters too much whether this is specified in Annex A or the Browser API section, but Annex A currently says ‘examples’ while these are normative requirements.

Reviewer 8: Is there anything beyond the SessionTranscript that needs to be specified, and I think for SessionTranscript it's only what to put in 'responseUri'? (e.g. I'm currently struggling to think of anything extra that would need to be specified for SD-JWT nor can I think of anything extra we need to say about nonce beyond what's already said).

I'm not sure if we would plan to specify this in VP or leave it to ISO. The current draft completely defers to ISO for mDL specifics.

Appendix A has already been renamed to remove 'examples' as it already had some normative requirements in it; I think this would likely be the place to put it if we do want to say something mDL/mDoc specific in the VP spec. FYI This version of the spec is auto updated when 'main' in this git repo is updated: https://openid.github.io/OpenID4VP/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-wg-draft.html#name-usage-with-various-credenti

Could you open an issue for the above please Martjin? (We're keen to get this initial PR merged as it's approaching 3 months old now and we have a number of issues already open that we can't do PRs for until this is merged.)

Reviewer 8: Discussed on today's WG call. There was a consensus around creating some kind of initial profile for how mdoc/mDL could work over the browser API and Oliver will open an issue.

Secondly, the session with the user will always continue in the initial context, typically a browser tab, when the request has been fulfilled (or aborted), which results in an improved user experience.

Thirdly, cross-device requests benefit from the use of secure transports with proximity checks, which are handled by the OS platform, e.g., using FIDO CTAP 2.2 with hybrid transports.

And lastly, as part of the request, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's origin as authenticated by the user agent, which is important for phishing resistance.  

## Protocol

The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `openid4vp` for this profile.

## Request {#browser_api_request}

The `request` member of the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api] contains an OpenID4VP Authorization Request, where every OpenID4VP Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JavaScript object member.

The following is a non-normative example of how the W3C Digital Credentials API can be used with an unsigned OpenID4VP request when advanced security features of OpenID4VP are not used:

```js

> if ('DigitalCredential' in window) {
>   const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
>     digital: {
>       providers: [{
>         protocol: "openid4vp",
>         request:  {
>           response_type: "vp_token",
>           nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
>           client_metadata: {...},
>           presentation_definition: {...}
>         }
>       }]
>     }
>   });
> } else {
> // fallback to other invocation mechanisms
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
try {
  const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
    digital: {
      providers: [{
        protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
        request:  {
          response_type: "vp_token",
          nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
          client_metadata: {...},
          presentation_definition: {...}
        }
      }]
    }
  });
} catch (err) {
  // Handle errors and/or fallback to other invocation mechanisms
}
```

Reviewer 3: not sure why previous suggestion got outdated and does not show up anymore..

> ```js
> if ('DigitalCredential' in window) {
>   const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
>     digital: {
>       providers: [{
>         protocol: "openid4vp",
>         request:  {
>           response_type: "vp_token",
>           nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
>           client_metadata: {...},
>           presentation_definition: {...}
>         }
>       }]
>     }
>   });
> } else {
> // fallback to other invocation mechanisms
> }
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```js
try {
  const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
    digital: {
      providers: [{
        protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
        request:  {
          response_type: "vp_token",
          nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
          client_metadata: {...},
          presentation_definition: {...}
        }
      }]
    }
  });
} catch (err) {
  // Handle errors and/or fallback to other invocation mechanisms
}
```
```

Out of the Authorization Request parameters defined in [@!RFC6749] and (#vp_token_request), the following are supported with this profile: 

* `client_id`
* `client_id_scheme`
* `response_type`
* `response_mode`
* `nonce`
* `presentation_definition`
* `client_metadata`
* `request`

The `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests defined in (#unsigned_request). The Wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Web Platform and/or app platform. The transport of the request and origin from the Web Platform and/or app platform to the Wallet is platform-specific and is out of scope of this profile.

> The value of the `response_mode` parameter MUST be `w3c_dc_api` when the response is neither signed nor encrypted and `w3c_dc_api.jwt` when the response is signed and/or encrypted as defined in (#jarm).

Reviewer 12: Going through the different issues and comments I could not find a definitive statement either way, but my understanding has been that response encryption is mandated either through the browser api (see https://github.com/WICG/digital-credentials/issues/109 ) or by the underlying protocol (i.e. OpenID4VP in this case). 
This sentence should therefore state that the response MUST be encrypted, unless the conclusion is that encryption will not be standardized / mandated on the protocol layer but the browser api layer.

> The value of the `response_mode` parameter MUST be `w3c_dc_api` when the response is neither signed nor encrypted and `w3c_dc_api.jwt` when the response is signed and/or encrypted as defined in (#jarm).

Reviewer 12: This sentence states the possibility for response signing. As this is a mechanism that directly effects interoperability, we should either remove the option or define the following details:

- What the purpose is of response signing, how do the threat models interact with response encryption and key/device authentication of the underlying credential formats
- How a signed response must be processed, what are the fallback options, how is support / requirements for it indicated.
- What are the mechanisms for response signing, is support for it optional / recommended / mandatory.

In the absence of a threat that requires response signing as a mitigating measure, I would recommend to remove the option for now and only add it when we know how and when it should be used.

> In addition to the above-mentioned parameters, this profile introduces a new parameter:

Reviewer 12: Given that binding to the origin is an important security feature, it is important to give more context on how the origin is used. This means we need to cover the following items in this PR:

* The origin is included in the cryptographic metadata used for response encryption and (credential format specific) device/key binding. It’s mandatory for the RP to verify whether this origin matches the origin it used to present the request, thereby preventing certain phishing attacks.
* Given that the origin is included in the cryptographic metadata in the response, including the expected_origins is in itself not necessary to prevent the phishing attack, but it does allow the wallet application to give an error earlier in the process.
* This means the following requirements apply:
    * If it’s a signed request, expected_origins must be included.
    * In the response encryption, origin must be included.
    * In the device/key binding, origin must be included.
    * If expected_origins is included, they must be verified by the wallet, if they don’t match the ‘actual’ origin, the transaction must be aborted.
    * The RP must verify the origin in the response and device/key binding mechanism, if it doesn’t match the ‘actual’ value, the transaction must be aborted.

Reviewer 3: agreed, but let's do it in another PR. opened #209

The signed Request Object MAY contain all the parameters listed in (#browser_api_request), except `request`.

Below is a non-normative example of such a request:

```js
const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
  digital: {
    providers: [{
      protocol: "openid4vp",
      request: {
        request: "eyJhbGciOiJF..."
     }
    }]
  }
});

This is an example of the payload of a signed OpenID4VP request used with the W3C Digital Credentials API:

<{{examples/digital_credentials_api/signed_request_payload.json}}

The signed request allows the Wallet to authenticate the Verifier using a trust framework other than the Web PKI utilized by the browser. An example of such a trust framework is the Verifier (RP) management infrastructure set up in the context of the eIDAS regulation in the European Union, in which case, the Wallet can no longer rely only on the web origin of the Verifier. This web origin MAY still be used to further strengthen the security of the flow. The external trust framework could, for example, map the Client Identifier to registered web origins.

> ## Response

Reviewer 12: In order to provide interoperability of the browser api, we need to define the full details and require support of at least one mechanism for response encryption. Is it correct that there is not yet an issue for defining those details in the context of the browser API? To satisfy the interoperability requirements, we need specify the details for the response encryption mechanism that must be be supported by the wallet: (Noting that some of these items are already partly specified)

* Details for the cryptographic primitives used.
* Details for transmission of key material.
* Details for authentication of key material (if applicable) 
* How the response encryption incorporates credential format specific details (when applicable)
* How the response encryption is bound to the origin.

Reviewer 3: there is already issue #203 on this. please comment there :)

Thirdly, cross-device requests benefit from the use of secure transports with proximity checks, which are handled by the OS platform, e.g., using FIDO CTAP 2.2 with hybrid transports.

And lastly, as part of the request, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's origin as authenticated by the user agent, which is important for phishing resistance.  

## Protocol

The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `urn:openid.net:oid4vp` for this profile.

## Request {#browser_api_request}

The `request` member of the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api] MUST contain a valid OpenID4VP Authorization Request, where every OpenID4VP Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JavaScript object member.

The following is a non-normative example of how the W3C Digital Credentials API can be used with an unsigned OpenID4VP request when advanced security features of OpenID4VP are not used:

```js
if ('DigitalCredential' in window) {
  const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
    digital: {
      providers: [{

>         protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        protocol: "openid4vp",
```

Reviewer 2: given https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/155/files#r1663076778?

## Signed and Unsigned Requests

Any OpenID4VP request compliant to this section of this specification can be used with the W3C Digital Credentials API [@!w3c.digital_credentials_api]. Depending on the mechanism used to identify and authenticate the Verifier, the request can be signed or unsigned. This section defines signed and unsigned OpenID4VP requests for use with the W3C Digital Credentials API.

### Unsigned Request {#unsigned_request}

The Verifier MAY send all the OpenID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.

### Signed Request {#signed_request}

The Verifier MAY send a signed request, for example, when identification and authentication of the Verifier is required.

The signed Request Object MAY contain all the parameters listed in (#browser_api_request), except `request`.

Below is a non-normative example of such a request:

```js
const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
  digital: {
    providers: [{

>       protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
      protocol: "openid4vp",
```

        </front>
</reference>

> <reference anchor="w3c.digital_credentials_api" target="https://wicg.github.io/digital-identities/">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<reference anchor="w3c.digital_credentials_api" target="https://wicg.github.io/digital-credentials/">
```

The design of this OIDVP profile utilizes the mechanisms of the W3C Digital Credentials API while also allowing to leverage advanced security features of OID4VP, if needed. It also defines the OID4VP request and response parameters that MAY be used with the W3C Digital Credentials API.

The following is a non-normative example of an unsigned request when advanced security features of OID4VP are not used:

```js
if ('DigitalCredential' in window) {
  const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
    digital: {
      providers: [{
        protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
        request:  {
          response_type: "vp_token",
          nonce: "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
          client_metadata: {...},
          presentation_definition: {...}
        }
      }]
    }
  });
} else {
// fallback to other invocation mechanisms
}
```

The following is a non-normative example of a response corresponding to a previous request:

```js

> const { data } = response;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const { data } = credential;
```

> const { data } = credential;

Reviewer 3: moved the example and fixed

```

The Digital Credentials API offers several advantages for implementers of both Verifiers and Wallets. 

Firstly, the API serves as a privacy-preserving alternative to invoking Wallets via URLs, particularly custom schemes. The user agent and app platform will only invoke a Wallet if the user confirms the request based on contextual information about the credential request and the requestor (verifier). 

Secondly, the user will always be returned to the initial context, typically a browser tab, when the request has been fulfilled (or aborted), which results in an improved user experience.

Thirdly, cross-device requests benefit from the use of secure transports with proximity checks, which are handled by the OS platform using FIDO CTAP 2.2 with hybrid transports.

And lastly, as part of the request, the Wallet is provided with information about the Verifier's origin as authenticated by the user agent, which is important for phishing resistance.  

## Protocol

The value of the `protocol` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST be set to `urn:openid.net:oid4vp` for this profile.

## Request {#browser_api_request}

> The `request` parameter of the W3C Digital Credentials API MUST contain a valid OID4VP Authorization Request, where every Authorization Request parameter is represented as a top-level JSON member. The following is the non-normative example of such a request:

Reviewer 3: fixed.

> ```json

Reviewer 3: fixed

{
  "client_id": "client.example.org",
  ...
  "response_type": "vp_token",
  "nonce": "n-0S6_WzA2Mj",
  "client_metadata": {...},
  "presentation_definition": {...}
}
```

Out of the Authorization Request parameters defined in [@!RFC6749] and (#vp_token_request), the following are supported with this profile: 

* `client_id`
* `client_id_scheme`
* `response_type`
* `nonce`
* `presentation_definition`
* `client_metadata`
* `request`
* `response_mode`

The `client_id` and `client_id_scheme` MUST be omitted in unsigned requests defined in (#unsigned_request). The Wallet determines the Client Identifier from the origin as asserted by the Browser. How the Wallet receives the origin from is up to the user agent and app platform and is out of scope of this profile.

The value of `response_mode` parameter MUST be `w3c_dc_api` when the response is not signed and/or encrypted and `w3c_dc_api.jwt` when the response is signed and/or encrypted as defined in (#jarm).

In addition to the above-mentioned parameters, this profile introduces a following new parameter:

> * `expected_origins`: An array of strings, each of the string representing an origin of the Verifier making the request. This parameter MUST only be used with signed requests defined in (#signed_request). It relates the logical Client Identifier to the physical endpoints that are legit origins for requests on behalf of this Client Identifier and is used to detect request replay.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `expected_origins`: REQUIRED. An array of strings, each of the string representing an origin of the Verifier making the request. It relates the logical Client Identifier to the physical endpoints that are legit origins for requests on behalf of this Client Identifier and is used to detect request replay.
```

I thought this parameter is supposed to be mandatory..?

Reviewer: only when the request is signed, right?

Reviewer 8: As discussed, let's discuss on a separate issue: https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/issues/352

Reviewer: mandatory when signed. meaningless otherwise

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `expected_origins`: REQUIRED when signed requests defined in (#signed_request) are send over the Browser API. An array of strings, each of the string representing an origin of the Verifier that is making the request. The Wallet can detect replay of the request by comparing values in this parameter to the origin asserted by the user agent.
```

> * `expected_origins`: An array of strings, each of the string representing an origin of the Verifier making the request. This parameter MUST only be used with signed requests defined in (#signed_request). It relates the logical Client Identifier to the physical endpoints that are legit origins for requests on behalf of this Client Identifier and is used to detect request replay.

Reviewer 2: > It relates the logical Client Identifier to the physical endpoints that are legit origins for requests on behalf of this Client Identifier and is used to detect request replay.

Is this value specified by the verifier? What happens when it lies? Doesn't this value need to be checked against a user-agent provided value? If so, what is its purpose?

Reviewer 2: @tplooker walked me through why a variation of this needs to be introduced and why it is useful: to prevent an interceptor re-sending this request (in a different origin) and getting the response back.

We chatted through a few options and alternatives and I think most of them would be plausible over the browser API. 

I'm going to resolve this and allow that conversation to continue between you all before taking another look at this section.

Reviewer 3: i am not sure I follow. expected_origins only make sense in the signed request, when verifier puts expected_origins in a signed request, the wallet receives both expected_origins and the origin asserted by the browser, compares both and can detect replay. are we on the same page @samuelgoto ?

## Signed and Unsigned Requests

> Any OpenID4VP request compliant to this specification can be sent over the W3C Digital Credentials API. Depending on the mechanism used to identify and authenticate the Verifier, the request can be signed or unsigned. This section defines signed and unsigned OpenID4VP requests over the W3C Digital Credentials API.

Reviewer 3: i think this is what was meant: "Any OpenID4VP request compliant to this section of this specification"

```suggestion
Any OpenID4VP request compliant to this section of this specification can be sent over the W3C Digital Credentials API. Depending on the mechanism used to identify and authenticate the Verifier, the request can be signed or unsigned. This section defines signed and unsigned OpenID4VP requests over the W3C Digital Credentials API.
```

### Unsigned Request {#unsigned_request}

> The Verifier MAY send all the OID4VP request data as JSON elements in the `request` API parameter and receives the result in the API's `result` parameter. In this case, the Wallet will use the Verifier origin as asserted by the Browser as the Verifer's Client Identifier.

Reviewer 3: fixed

### Signed Request {#signed_request}

The Verifier MAY send a signed request, for example, when identification and authentication of the Verifier is required.

The signed Request Object MAY contain all the parameters listed in (#browser_api_request), except `request`. The signed Request Object MUST contain an `expected_origins` parameter. 

> Below is a non-normative example of such a request:

Reviewer 2: Isn't the MUST `expected_origins` parameters missing in the example below?

```js
const credential = await navigator.identity.get({
  digital: {
    providers: [{
      protocol: "urn:openid.net:oid4vp",
      request: {

>        client_id: "client.example.org",

Reviewer 3: fixed

       client_id_scheme: "entity_id",

>        request: "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ..."

Reviewer 8: This header has "typ":"JWT" which isn't really a good idea; suggested just truncating a bit more:

```suggestion
       request: "eyJhbGciOiJF..."
```

Reviewer 3: fixed

     }
    }]
  }
});
```

This is an example signed request payload:

<{{examples/digital_credentials_api/signed_request_payload.json}}

> The signed request allows the Wallet to authenticate the Verifier using a trust framework other than the Web PKI utilized by the browser. An example of such a trust framework is the Verifier (RP) management infrastructure set up in the context of the eIDAS regulation in the European Union. The signature over the wallet-provided nonce is a counter-measure against replay as the Wallet can no longer only rely on the web origin of the Verifier. This web origin MAY still be used to further strengthen the security of the flow. The external trust framework could, for example, map the Client Identifier to registered web origins.

Reviewer 8: There isn't a wallet-provided nonce? I guess verifier-provided must be what was meant though I'm not quite sure as I'm not sure a verifier provided nonce is a anti-replay measure:

```suggestion
The signed request allows the Wallet to authenticate the Verifier using a trust framework other than the Web PKI utilized by the browser. An example of such a trust framework is the Verifier (RP) management infrastructure set up in the context of the eIDAS regulation in the European Union. The signature over the verifier-provided nonce is a counter-measure against replay as the Wallet can no longer only rely on the web origin of the Verifier. This web origin MAY still be used to further strengthen the security of the flow. The external trust framework could, for example, map the Client Identifier to registered web origins.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The signed request allows the Wallet to authenticate the Verifier using a trust framework other than the Web PKI utilized by the browser. An example of such a trust framework is the Verifier (RP) management infrastructure set up in the context of the eIDAS regulation in the European Union, in which case, the Wallet can no longer rely only on the web origin of the Verifier. This web origin MAY still be used to further strengthen the security of the flow. The external trust framework could, for example, map the Client Identifier to registered web origins.
```

Reviewer 8: LGTM, thanks!

## Response

> Every OID4VP Authorization Request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. The Authorization Response is a JSON object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded as top-level members in this JSON object. 

Reviewer 8: JSON -> JS again:

```suggestion
Every OID4VP Authorization Request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. The Authorization Response is a JavaScript object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded as top-level members in this JavaScript object. 
```

The following is an example of an OID4VP Authorization Response through the API: 

> ```json

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```js
```

Reviewer 3: this is not a JS script code but a json example, so ```json is correct

In addition to the above-mentioned parameters, this profile introduces a following new parameter:

* `expected_origins`: An array of strings, each of the strings representing an origin of the Verifier making the request. This parameter MUST only be used with signed requests. It relates the logical Client Identifier to the physical endpoints that are legit origins for requests on behalf of this Client Identifier and is used to detect request replay.

## Response

Every OID4VP Authorization Request MUST result in a response being provided through the W3C Digital Credentials API. The Authorization Response is a JSON object, where the response parameters as defined for the Response Type are encoded as top-level members in this JSON object. 

The following is an example of an OID4VP Authorization Response through the API: 

```json
{
  "presentation_submission": "...",
  "vp_token": "..."
}
```

Note: All mechanisms for cryptographically protecting the OID4VP response MAY be utilized with the W3C Digital Credentials API, too. 

> ## Example Flows

Reviewer 3: having normative requirements in the examples section does not feel right. maybe rename the section to something like "using this extension with different trust requirements".

Reviewer 3: moved sections around

   * added references to ISO/IEC 23220 and 18013 documents 
   * added `post` request method for Request URI

>    * Added IETF SD-JWT VC profile

Reviewer: wait... what? 
isn't this PR "adding a OID4VP profile for the W3C Digital Credentials API" or something along those lines?

Reviewer 8: This is gitlab being screwy. It's showing a whole load of changes that aren't actually in this PR. (I checked by checking out locally, merging main into this branch and then doing a diff against main, and this change doesn't show up.)

I suggest merging main into this branch, that'll probably "fix" it.

Reviewer 3: yes, this has been fixed.
